6-0 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish.
I'm Neil
And I'm Beth
Happy birthday to you
Um, thank you Beth
But it's not my birthday
I know, but this program is all about birthdays
Or birthday cakes to be precise
Ah yes
The highlight of any birthday party is the birthday cake
Blowing out the candles and making a wish
Right
But things have changed a lot from the days
When most birthday cakes were homemade
Made at home and not bought from a shop
Nowadays, many birthday cakes are works of art
Extravagant, edible creations, designed and decorated
To represent the person
Celebrating their birthday
In this program, we'll be hearing from two bakers
A famous TV chef who bakes simple but tasty cakes
And another who's designed personalised birthday cakes
For celebrities including Arnold Schwarzenegger
And as usual, we'll be learning some useful new vocabulary as well
Sounds good
But first, I have a question for you Neil
Everyone looks forward to their birthday
Especially if there's cake
But according to the UK's Office for National Statistics
Which is the most common month to be born
Is it a March, B, July or C September
Hmm, that's an interesting question
And I'm going to guess it's September
Okay Neil, I'll reveal the answer at the end of the program
One of Britain's best loved cake bakers is Dame Mary Berry
Here, she describes her perfect birthday cake
To BBC Radio 4's the Food Program
My perfect cake would be something in lemon or orange
Because those are my favourite flavors
I don't mind how hegel the pickle the it is
Don't take a long time to do but beautifully fresh
And beautifully, very simple
Mary Berry thinks a simple birthday cake is best
She doesn't mind if the decoration is higgledy piglety
Mixed up and in no particular order
Yes, when it comes to birthday cakes
Flavour is more important than decoration for Dame Mary Berry
But now a new generation of bakers is making cakes in a totally different way
The cakes Adam Cox makes in his East London bakery
Our truly fantastic looking creations
Here's Adam speaking to BBC Radio 4's the Food Program
I get asked to do all sorts like my customers and clients
A very generous with the leeway that they give me
Based on the past designs that I've made that they've seen
So they're happy to just leave it with me
I really just want to create something that will last long in the memory
For the person that I do it for it
It's a real pleasure to have this as a job
Because as I say it gives me a lot of freedom to express myself creatively
So I really try and go above and beyond to give the client something that
You know they will be really happy with
Adam gets asked to make all sorts
Meaning many different kinds of cakes
His customers who want the cake to be a special part of a birthday party
Give him lots of leeway
Lots of freedom to make the cake the way he wants to
Adam finds out about the person's interests and hobbies
And uses these to come up with decoration ideas
Adam loves his job
It gives him the freedom to express himself creatively
And he enjoys seeing his customers reaction
When the finished cake is revealed
Adam goes above and beyond to satisfy his customers
If you go above and beyond you do something with more effort
Then would normally be expected
And the results of Adam's extra effort
Birthday cakes which last long in the memory
A phrase describing something which creates such a strong impression
That it's remembered for a long time
Or at least until the following year
When another birthday comes around
And it's time to start baking all over again
And speaking of birthdays coming around
What was the answer to your question, Beth
You asked me which was the most common month to be born in the UK
And you guessed it was September which was
The correct answer
Babies born in the UK peak in September
Let's recap the vocabulary from this programme starting with home made
An adjective describing something which is made at home
And not bought from a shop
If something is higgledy pigly
It's mixed up and in no particular order
The phrase all sorts means many different kinds of something
Like the sweets called licorice all sorts
Which come in different shapes and colours
If someone gives you leeway to do something
They give you the freedom to do it the way you want to
The idiom to last long in the memory
Means to create such a strong effect that it's remembered for a long time
And finally when someone goes above and beyond
They do something with much more effort than would usually be expected
Once again our six minutes are up
If your birthday is coming up
We hope you have a cake with candles
And make a wish to join us again soon for more trending topics
And useful vocabulary here at six minute English
Goodbye for now